##I have updated the submission for algaeClassify v2.0.1 on 10/17/2023 based on prechecks from the initial CRAN review.

## Test environments
* local windows 10 environment, R 4.3.1
* ubuntu 20.04 (on r_hub), R-release 4.3.1
* Fedora Linux (on r_hub), R-devel, clang, gfortran
* Mac OSX
* win-builder (devel and release)

## R CMD check results
- I have listed all notes generated by R CMD check as well as the devtools functions check_win_devel, check_win_release, check_mac_release, and check_rhub. My responses are listed below each note, beginning with '-'.

I believe some of the remaining notes are known bugs associated with rhub and other tools used for checking packages, which I cannot resolve. None of the remaining notes indicate problems with my code on any of the tested platforms.

##R CMD check results algaeClassify 2.0.1 
Duration: 39s

❯ checking top-level files ... NOTE
  Non-standard files/directories found at top level:
    'CHANGELOG.md' 'DISCLAIMER.md' 'LICENSE.md' 'code.json'

-This package is an official software release of my agency,
	 (the U.S. Geological Survey), and these files are part of the 
	 documentation requirements for all USGS software releases.
	 
❯ checking dependencies in R code ... NOTE
  Initiating curl with CURL_SSL_BACKEND: openssl
  
  -I believe that this is an issue with curl rather than algaeClassify. As long as the user is set up to use curl this note should not create a problem.

##Devtools functions check_win_devel, check_win_release, check_mac_release, and check_rhub
#NOTES:

1) Possibly misspelled words in DESCRIPTION:
  GNRS (30:42)
  ITIS (33:19)
  ritis (33:65)
  taxize (30:78)
  
- These are all acronyms for online databases or names of r package functions,
  and are all correctly spelled.

2) Non-standard files/directories found at top level:
     'CHANGELOG.md' 'DISCLAIMER.md' 'LICENSE.md' 'code.json'
	 
-This package is an official software release of my agency,
	 (the U.S. Geological Survey), and these files are part of the 
	 documentation requirements for all USGS software releases.

3) Examples with CPU (user + system) or elapsed time > 5s
                user system elapsed
itis_search_df 0.464  0.009  10.219

-I modified the example for the itis_search_df function so it consistently runs in <5s on all platforms.

4) Initiating curl with CURL_SSL_BACKEND: openssl

-I believe that this is an issue with curl rather than algaeClassify. As long as the user is set up to use curl this note should not create a problem.
	
5) Skipping checking HTML validation: no command 'tidy' found

-This appears to be an issue with the test system used by Rhub, rather than a
problem with the package code itself. This issue has been flagged on github as a
general issue encountered by multiple packages.

6) checkRd: (-1) traits_to_csr.Rd:41: Lost braces
    41 | /url{https://powellcenter.usgs.gov/geisha} for project information
       |     ^
- I replaced the /url tag with angle braces <> around the url, which resolved this issue.

7) Found the following files/directories:
  ''NULL''
  
 -This appears to be an issue with the Rhub package, not algaeClassify. See https://github.com/r-hub/rhub/issues/560.

8)* checking for detritus in the temp directory ... NOTE
Found the following files/directories:
  'lastMiKTeXException'
  
 -This appears to be a known issue with the Rhub pacakge, rather than algaeClassify. See
 https://github.com/r-hub/rhub/issues/503.